# Library 📚 uim-datasources

A **data source** is the location where data originates or is stored. It serves as the initial point from which data is accessed and utilized. Data sources can take various forms, and they play a crucial role in data management and processing. Let’s explore this concept further:

**Types of Data Sources**:

- **Machine Data Sources**:
  - These sources generate data automatically, often from sensors, devices, or automated processes.
  - Examples include:
    - **Sensor Readings**: Temperature, humidity, pressure, etc.
    - **Log Files**: Generated by servers, applications, or network devices.
    - **IoT Devices**: Smart home sensors, industrial machinery, etc.
- **File Data Sources**:
  - These sources store data in files, which can be structured (like CSV or JSON files) or unstructured (like text documents or images).
  - Examples include:
    - **CSV Files**: Comma-separated values for tabular data.
    - **JSON Files**: Storing structured data.
    - **Text Documents**: Word files, PDFs, etc.

**Data Source Nomenclature**:

- In database management, a **Data Source Name (DSN)** serves as a pointer to the actual data.
- The DSN specifies how to reach the data, whether it’s local or on a remote server.
- DSNs are essential for connecting applications to databases.

**Examples**:

- Imagine a fashion brand’s website displaying product availability. The inventory database tables serve as a data source, accessed by the web application to show stock status.
- In a weather app, live measurements from weather stations act as data sources, providing real-time weather data.

---

This library contains interfaces for implementing Repositories and Entities using any data source,  
a class for managing connections to datasources and traits to help you quickly implement the  
interfaces provided by this package.

## Repositories

A repository is a class capable of interfacing with a data source using operations such as  
`find`, `save` and `delete` by using intermediate query objects for expressing commands to  
the data store and returning Entities as the single result unit of such system.

In the case of a Relational database, a Repository would be a `Table`, which can be return single  
or multiple `Entity` objects by using a `Query`.

This library exposes the following interfaces for creating a system that : the  
repository pattern and is compatible with the UIM framework:

- `IRepository` - Describes the methods for a base repository class.
- `IEntity` - Describes the methods for a single result object.
- `IResultSet` - Represents the idea of a collection of Entities as a result of a query.

Additionally, this package provides a few traits and classes you can use in your own implementations:

- `EntityTrait` - Contains the default implementation for the `IEntity`.
- `QueryTrait` - Exposes the methods for creating a query object capable of returning decoratable collections.
- `ResultSetDecorator` - Decorates any traversable object, so it complies with `IResultSet`.

## Connections

This library contains a couple of utility classes meant to create and manage  
connection objects. Connections are typically used in repositories for  
interfacing with the actual data source system.

The `ConnectionManager` class acts as a registry to access database connections  
your application has. It provides a place that other objects can get references  
to existing connections. Creating connections with the `ConnectionManager` is  
easy:

```
ConnectionManager.config("connection-one", [
    "className":"CustomConnection",
    "param1":"value",
    "param2":"another value"
]);

ConnectionManager.config("connection-two", [
    "className":"CustomConnection",
    "param1":"different value",
    "param2":"another value"
]);
```

When requested, the `ConnectionManager` will instantiate  
`CustomConnection` by passing `param1` and `param2` inside an  
array as the first argument of the constructor.

Once configured connections can be fetched using `ConnectionManager.get()`.  
This method will construct and load a connection if it has not been built  
before, or return the existing known connection:

```
conn = connectionManager.get("master");
```

It is also possible to store connection objects by passing the instance directly to the manager:

```
conn = connectionManager.config("other", myConnectionInstance);
```
